Okay, so this is probably the biggest
story in the tech right now. Peter
Steinberg, who is the creator of
OpenClaw, is joining OpenAI. OpenClaw is
going to become a foundation and is
going to be independent and will remain
an open-source project.
Now, OpenClaw has been on a roll for the
last few weeks. It's the fastest growing
open source project and really a glimpse
of what personalized agents could look
like. Now I have talked about a security
nightmares of this project but finally
we have a big player behind the project
because uh this project was so far
mainly managed by a single person. I
think this has been a roller coaster
ride for him as well. He had to change
the project name three times in a span
of just 72 hours. Here's a tweet from uh
Sam Alman. We're going to go through the
blog post and also the timeline of the
events that have been pretty incredible.
So he says, "Peter Steinberg is joining
OpenAI to drive the next generation of
personal agents. He is a genius with a
lot of amazing ideas about the future of
very smart agents interacting with each
other to do very useful things for
people. We expect this will quickly
become core to our product offerings. So
you can actually see an indication of
where the direction of OpenAI is going
to be going. They want to get into the
personal agent space. OpenCloud will
live in a foundation as an open source
project that OpenAI will continue to
support. The future is going to be
extremely multi- aent and it's important
for us to support open source as a part
of that. Now with this news there are
people who are looking for alternative
even though it is going to remain open
source. So here is Igger Babiskin who
was the co-founder of XAI. So he's
saying what's the best open alternative
to open cloud right now doesn't make
sense to pull all your data into it if
it's owned by openai. Now according to
Peter it's going to remain open source
not owned by openai. So here is Ron from
OpenAI in response to that tweet from he
says these are locally stateful agents
that send traffic to the model provider
of your choice. Actually, now that I say
it, I'm guessing Enthropic will ban
using Opus from Open Claw just to spite
us. If you have been following the story
of OpenClaw, Anthropic has been a really
big part of it because initially it was
called Cloudbot. Anthropic forced Peter
to change the name, then it became
moldbot and then open claw. In response
to the Ron's tweet, I actually pointed
out this is how it uh works today in
open claw and uh that is awesome but if
an openi changes the direction and make
themselves a first class citizen in the
ecosystem that is not awesome and that
is one of the biggest concerns right now
that people have that okay how much
influence openai is going to have on the
project and what direction they can take
it in. We don't know that yet. Now,
here's a ex user who points out a really
good point that Peter has previously
said in some of his interviews. So,
Steinberg have has made his prerequisite
and ideals non-negotiable and he seems
credible and upright in that would
change like this be an easy to spot in
an open-source project and I think Peter
has talked about it that um one of his
requirements of joining a company was
that openclaw is going to remain open
source. Okay, so if you're interested,
here's the timeline of uh how this
project came into being and all the
craziness around it. So it started as a
personal project back in November 2025
and in December it went viral. So it
crossed 60,000 GitHub stars and on
January 9 blocked the access of third
party open source projects from using
their oath token that cloud code uses.
There was a big backlash around it, but
then Anthropic force uh Pet Peter
Steinberg to change the name from
Claudebot to moldbot. On the same day,
scammers seems to have hijacked old
accounts in under 5 seconds, which is
kind of crazy. Then Peter Steinberg
wanted to change the name to OpenClaw.
He checked with Sam Alpen. According to
some of his interviews, there was also a
project called Molt Book, which is
supposed to be a social network for
agents that also started late January.
Every there were there has been a lot of
uh security related concerns for Open
Claw. Then on one of the interviews with
Lex Freriedman, uh Peter Steinberg said
that he's in talks with both Meta and
OpenAI for a potential employment
agreement for him and keeping the
project open source. And now on February
15th, Peter Steinberg is joining OpenAI
to work on personalized or personal
agents while the project itself is going
to remain open source. So in all this I
think Anthropic has missed a great
opportunity to be the go-to provider for
non-developers in the form of personal
agents like open claw. It has more than
a million users now. Uh and I think it
would have been a great opportunity for
anthropic to just continue supporting
the project. maybe even provide credits
to Peter Steinberg for developing it
because he did say that um Opus or the
cloud models as operating models in
OpenCloud are pretty great. Now that
might change a little bit. Okay, so
here's the article or blog post that
Peter Steinberg posted in response to
the events that have happened. So in
here he says I'm joining OpenAI to work
on bringing agents to everyone. OpenClaw
will move to a foundation in stay open
and independent. Now he talks about the
last month events uh which I think was
crazy for everybody involved. Then he
has talk he talks about his own kind of
struggles with all this because if you
are bombarded by so many different
opportunities in different directions I
think it's really hard to keep up. And
the good thing is that Peter has
actually openly talked about this uh on
Lex Freedman podcast. Now, then he goes
on to say, "When I started exploring AI,
my goal was to have fun and inspire
people. And here we are. The lobster is
taking over the world. My next mission
is to build an agent that even my mom
can use." And that's going to be I think
the next frontier because uh developers
are pretty comfortable using these
agentic systems now. But the main
usefulness or challenge is to make it so
easy that non-developers can easily use
it. And I think uh with OpenAI behind
Peter that's going to become a lot more
easier to do. There are definitely
concerns around who is going to be
defining the direction. I think we'll
have to see what happens there. Now then
he says yes I could have totally see how
open claw could become a huge company
and no it's not really exciting for me.
I am a builder at heart. I did the whole
uh creating a company game already,
poured 13 years of my life into it and
learned a lot. Keep in mind Peter is not
just a random developer. He had a
company. He already retired by selling
that company but in he came back to
building personal software or personal
agents in the form of Open Claw. Then he
says, "What I want is to change the
world, not to build a large company, and
teaming up with OpenAI is the fastest
way to bring this to everyone." I spent
last week in San Francisco talking with
the major labs, getting access to the
people and unreleased research and it's
been inspiring on all the fronts. So he
says, "Ultimately, I felt OpenAI was the
best place to continue pushing on my
vision and expand its reach. The more I
talked with the people there, the clear
it became that we both shared the same
vision. Now community around open is
something magical and open AI has made
strong commitments to enable me to
dedicate my time to it and already
sponsor the project to get this into the
proper structure. I'm working on making
it into a foundation. uh it will stay a
place for thinkers, hackers and people
that want a way to own their data with
goal of supporting even more models and
companies. Now I think the good thing
that is going to come out of it is going
to be that hopefully they're going to
resolve all the security issues and claw
is going to remain the law but we are
already potentially seeing some backlash
or responses from other countries. Now
uh this is just you one user so I don't
want to generalize it. Here's Alex who
is the host of Thursday AI podcast. He
says new users are out of luck with open
claw and open for six question mark.
Just tried to set it up. Um, anthropics
maxplant does not seem to work anymore
via set of token and signing up to an
API tier doesn't work as API rate limits
basically kill any possible usage. I
finally convinced my fiance to try and
she's upset as heck right now. One thing
they already blocked the oath that was
used for cloud code. So if he has tried
that's not going to work. But the rate
limit thing I'm not sure it might be
based on the account that he was using.
It doesn't probably have high enough
rate limits on it because open claw eats
through the tokens very quickly and
that's by design. Now there are already
people calling the project closed claw.
We'll have to see. I think it's probably
premature to say that. and uh seems like
he's going to be working on or with the
Codex team. So, we're going to see how
this thing is going to evolve, but I
think there's hope that the project is
going to not only survive, but thrive.
Let's see what happens and what the
future holds. Anyways, I hope you
enjoyed this quick video. Thanks for
watching and as always, see you in the
next one.